                                        Montreal November 11, 1992

        Hi Chris,

        After struggling for some time, I finally managed the program
        to work. I noticed that when I play locally against the computor
        the board is not upside down. But When I am playing against
        a caller, my board is still upside down whereas his board is
        normal. Is it possible to fix this problem ? or is it that one
        side has to play with a reversed board all the time? I would
        appreciate your comment on this.

        Now, here is a recap of what I told you on the phone:-

        1. If a player can move the values of both dice before making
        his first move, he should not be allowed to make his first move
        thus not being able to play his second move.

        Here is an example:
  	 				                                     
        X   W   V   U   T   S           R   Q   P   O   N   M      
(-)  ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออหอออออหอออออออออออออออออออออออออหอออป        
HOME บ                 (-) (-) บ     บ     (-)                 บ Z บ    (*)
     บ                 (-) (-) บ     บ     (-)                 บ   บ  To Play
     บ                 (-) (-) บ     บ     (-)                 บ   บ ษอออออออป
     บ                 (-) (-) บ     บ                         บ O บ บ o   o บ
ฺฤฤฤฟบ                 (-) (-) บ     บ                         บ   บ บ o   o บ
ณ 1 ณบ                         บ BAR บ                         บ F บ บ o   o บ 
ภฤฤฤูบ                         บ     บ                         บ   บ ศอออออออผ
     บ                         บ     บ                         บ F บ ษอออออออป
     บ                         บ     บ                         บ   บ บ o   o บ
(*)  บ (-)             (*) (*) บ     บ (*)                     บ   บ บ   o   บ
HOME บ (-)             (*) (*) บ     บ (*)                 (*) บ Z บ บ o   o บ
     ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออสอออออสอออออออออออออออออออออออออผอออผ ศอออออออผ
        A   B   C   D   E   F           G   H   I   J   K   L  	  

        (*) Rolls 6-5 - According to your program he is able to
            play the 5  L to G and then he has no valid moves
            According to Backgammon rules he is not allowed to do this.
            because he should play first the 6 L to F and then
            the  5 G to B. That means the prog should check all the
            available moves before letting player make his move. This
            applies to the Sysop also as well as to the computor.

        2. The players should have the option to play the game in either
           of the following modes which could be agreed upon before
           start of the game (like a button that toggles)

           Mode 1: When a move is made it is considered final.

           Mode 2: When the move for the second die is made, then
                   the program should ask if this is final (y/n)
                   and if the player presses "y" or ENTER then the
                   2 moves become final. But if he presses "N" then
                   all his moves are taken back and he starts from
                   his initial position. This should also aplly to the
                   Sysop but definitely not to the computor. As I told
                   you on the phone the American way is mode 2, whether
                   it is a friendly game, game for money or major
                   tournment. Whereas the Middle East people mostly play
                   Mode 1.

          3. When a board is blocked and the opponent has a man or more
             on the BAR, there is no need for the opponent to roll the
             dice, as it could be a waste of time.

          4. When playing against the computor, if the caller can
          control somehow the speed of the computor's moves so he can
          see the dice rolled and the moves made by the computor.

          5. Finally we spoke about the arrow direction like the Right
             arrow would move all the way clockwise and the Left arrow
             would move all the way anti-clockwise.

         In the meantime, if you could fix the board for the sysop
         provided Sysop and caller will have their Homes in the Bottom
         left quadrant, I would very much appreciate it. If it is
         impossible to fix this problem then I'll have to play my games
         on a reversed board which is rather difficult to visualize
         the board and the moves.

         Here are 2 Bugs that I noticed while playing with a friend of
         mine.

         A) Everytime we start a new game, the caller's screen is still
            showing the men of the previous game (in a shadow form of
            colour). So when he pressed (R)efresh then the Screen became
            normal. I tought you should know about this.

         B) Everytime that I was pressing F2 to increase Time Left, for
         some reason, the colours of the men were changing. Also you
         would see on the same point men on top of each other of
         different colors. It also happened that Sysop lost a couple of
         turns while the caller played an extra of a couple of turns.
         This description is to the best of my knowledge. I think it
         would be a good idea if you tried it yourself and see exactly
         what is happening.

         I'll start preparing you some docs for the Doubling Cube,
         scoring, rules of backgammon, first moves for the computor,
         computor's reply for caller's first moves, and more.. :)

         Good luck in your achievements and take care..... J.L.


